# K6 - Using K6 project for application testing

This project is part of the 'Environment of Services' course at AGH University of Krakow (summer semester, 2026).

Authors:
- Jakub Ciura ([@jciura](https://github.com/jciura)),
- Bernard Gawor ([@Gawor270](https://github.com/Gawor270)),
- Krzysztof Ligarski ([@kligarski](https://github.com/kligarski)),
- Łukasz Zegar ([@lvk4z](https://github.com/lvk4z)).

## 1. Introduction
Large language models are currently on the rise, and with that many developers seek ways to use them in everyday applications. One concept that seems the most popular right now is the 
[Model Context Protocol (MCP)](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/docs/getting-started/intro). It provides a standardized interface for connecting language models with external tools and services. LLMs, which are called in this instance AI agents, are used as middlemen between the user and the backend service. The agent interprets user's query and chooses proper tool that is available through MCP server.

As MCP servers become more widespread, it becomes increasingly important to evaluate their performance, limitations, and advantages. The main goal of this project is to design a demonstration environment that showcases xk6-mcp, a tool used for testing MCP servers. The environment will enable simulation of interactions with MCP servers and allow their behavior under load to be analyzed. Testing will be performed by collecting and visualizing metrics using [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/), [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) and [Grafana](https://grafana.com/). 

## 2. Theoretical background and technology stack
## 3. Demo concept description
### 3.1. Application
The application used to interact with an AI model is a simple chatbot. Its interface is implemented using [Streamlit](https://streamlit.io/), which is an open-source Python framework that allows to deliver interactive data apps in only a few lines of code.

The chatbot uses LangChain to intergrate LLM with external tools that are available through MCP server. The LLM is responsible for interpreting user's request and choosing proper tool defined in mentioned previously MCP server.

The MCP server is implemented using FastMCP and exposes a set of tools that are related to operations implemented in backend service. These operations allow user to perform actions such as retrieving product information, listing available items and calculating shipping costs.

To evaluate the behavior of the MCP server under load, testing will be performed using k6 together with xk6-mcp. The testing environment will simulate multiple AI agents sending requests to the MCP server simultaneously. This allows the system to mimic realistic interaction patterns and analyze how the MCP server performs when handling concurrent requests generated by multiple agents.
### 3.2. Observability
In order to analyze the behavior and performance of the system, the demo is equipped with an observability layer based on OpenTelemetry, which allows to collect telemtry data such as metrics, traces and logs.

To get the whole picture of the system state, K6, backend service and MCP server export telemetry data to an OpenTelemetry Collector instance. The collector then processes data and send it forward to a monitoring system based on Prometheus, which stores it.

This setup enables the collection of various performance indicators from whole system, and that allows to truly measure how MCP server behaves under different workloads, identify potential bottlenecks and assess general state of system.

### 3.3. Visualization
To make analysis of the collected telemetry data easier, the system uses Grafana for visualization. Grafana connects to Prometheus and provides interactive dashboard along with real-time metrics generated by the system.

The dashboards present key performance indicators such as request throughput, response times, error rates, and resource utilization. By analyzing these metrics, it is possible to evaluate how MCP server and backend respond to changes. 
## 4. Demo high level architecture
